# 2.2.3. Django pros / cons

In our experience working with both Flask and Django, Django seemed a more logical choice for this particular project, however this is no criticism of Flask, and Django does have some drawbacks. Although Django is older and seen as more stable, the documentation and official tutorials for Flask are easier to follow, and often troubleshooting Django will turn-up links to older releases, which may not be backwards-compatible (but most often are). The official documentation for Django is much larger, as many features that are standard in Django only exist in additional packages for Flask. Therefore, the Flask documentation mirrors the framework’s philosophy, light-weight, easy to get started with, but lacking inclusion of more complex features.
 
One benefit of Django is the philosophy of DRY (Don’t Repeat Yourself), Django is written in such a way that each required aspect should be written out fully once, then referenced later. This does however produce code which can be more confusing to budding web app developers, with separate files to store URL’s, views, models and templates all linking to one another through import statements. However, this methodology is good practice and saves time in the long-run.

Use of AWS EB to deploy and host our web app also presented challenges, EB deployments can be finicky, for example, with Django there is a requirement to name the path to the /static folder, containing static files such as images, .css and .js code. While Django has a convention to keep the /static folder within the specific app directory, AWS EB struggles to find this folder and serve these files in deployment. Although there are many “fixes” found online, a number of these are contradictory, or don’t work in specific cases. For our HTFome app, the solution to this issue was pulling the static directory out of the app subdirectory and placing it in the project root directory. 

A similar issue was found when deploying the Flask app to AWS EB, Flask servers can be run locally for development by running the code in the file often called main.py, however, with AWS EB, this file had to be called application.py, and references to “app” in the code had to be changed to “application” for EB to run the file correctly. 
