# 2.5.3. HTF Activity

Estimating protein activity from gene expression data is a complicated task and many considerations, such as post-translational modifications and cascade effects, need to be taken into account. We have chosen to utilize the validated algorithm “Virtual Inference of Protein-activity by Enriched Regulon analysis” (VIPER), which is an R-package that is available via Bioconductor, and has been validated for protein activity estimations.

VIPER is a regulatory-network based algorithm that performs a regulon enrichment analysis on gene expression signatures. The first step in the enrichment analysis is comparing two groups of samples (distinct in either phenotype or treatment) by any form of measurement in difference between groups. For our algorithm we used a simple student’s t-test. Second step is to define a nullmodel to account for the correlation structure between genes. This nullmodel is defined by a set of signatures that has been obtained by random shuffling of the test and reference samples for 1,000 repetitions. After creating the nullmodel as well as the student’ t-test on the expression signatures, a regulatory network needed to be acquired. For this we decided to use the DoRothEA package that is also available via Bioconductor. DoRothEA is a data structure that contains interactions between HTFs and their targets, which is referred to as a regulon object. The data for the DoRothEA regulons is collected and curated from different sources, such as reviewed literature, ChIP-seq peaks, TF binding site motifs and interactions inferred from gene expression.

The VIPER algorithm utilizes everything from above and computes an object of class ‘msVIPER’, which contains the gene expression signatures, the regulon and its estimated enrichment and p-values.

